What if experts use a specific technique
to master skills faster than everyone
else? What if that same method could
help you get conversationally confident
in a any subject in just a few months?
By the end of this video, you'll have a
four-step system for learning that feels
almost effortless. But first, let's talk
about why most people are learning
completely wrong. Stop what you're
doing. If you're highlighting a
textbook, close it. Most of us try to
learn by reading and rereading. But
research shows that just rereading
something is one of the least effective
ways to remember it. The returns drop
off dramatically after the first pass.
I've coached thousands of students from
people failing their classes to coders
trying to land jobs at top tech
companies. But before I found this
system, I was a terrible student. I
failed calculus twice. I'd forget what I
read just 5 minutes later. Then I
stumbled on a method that goes against
everything schools teach us and it
changed everything. Here's the problem.
When most people want to learn
something, they start with passive
consumption. They read a book cover to
cover. They watch tutorials. They
highlight everything. But your brain
isn't a hard drive. It has a built-in
filter for what's important. And
passively consuming information tells
that filter, "This is disposable."
Luckily, you can hijack that filter.
Step one, the prime and probe method.
This sounds backwards. Start by teaching
something you don't know yet. Here's
how. Before you read a single page, grab
a piece of paper. Write down everything
you think you know about the topic. It
doesn't matter if you're wrong. This
primes your brain, creating mental hooks
to hang new information on. It forces
your brain to ask, "Is this right?"
Which kickstarts the entire learning
process. Step two, turn statements into
questions. Don't just read, "Napoleon
invaded Russia in 1812." Ask, "Why did
he invade? What was his plan? What went
wrong?" Your brain is wired to solve
puzzles, not just store facts. Questions
turn passive learning into an active
hunt for answers. But the most powerful
questions are the ones that build
connections, which brings the next step.
Step three, build a connection web. For
every new idea you learn, ask, "What
does this remind me of?" Your brain
learns by linking new information to old
information. The more connections, the
stronger the memory. For example,
learning about atoms, connect them to a
solar system. Learning the Spanish word
bibliotecha, it sounds like Bible. And
both come from the Greek word for book.
Connect it. The connections don't have
to be perfect. They just have to make
sense to you. Step four, the reality
test. You have to use your knowledge,
especially when you don't feel ready.
Learning Spanish? Try to order a coffee
on day one. Learning to code? Start
building a tiny broken project
immediately. Studying history? Explain
it to a friend. This is called desirable
difficulty. Your brain learns best when
it has to struggle just a little bit.
And here's one more quick tip to make
all of this permanent. The spacing
secret. Don't cram. Space out your
review. A great schedule to start with
is reviewing after 1 day, then 7 days,
then 30 days. This method works with
your brain's natural forgetting curve.
Reviewing right as you're about to
forget something tells your brain, "Hey,
this is important." and locks it in for
the long term. I get emails every week
from people using this system, students
finally acing their exams, professionals
learning new skills to change careers.
The results are incredibly consistent,
but it all comes down to one final
mindset shift. Stop trying to be
perfect. Start trying to be wrong. The
fastest learners don't avoid mistakes.
They hunt for them. Every mistake is a
bright flashing sign showing you exactly
where you need to focus. So, here's what
I want you to do. Pick one thing you
want to learn. One, write down what you
think you know about it. Two, turn it
into a few key questions. Three, go find
the answer to just one of those
questions. If this helped, hit that like
button and subscribe for more practical
learning strategies. In the next video,
I'll show you one study habit that's
even more powerful than all of these
combined.